# CarND-Path-Planning-Project
My implementation of Path Planning Project for Self-Driving Car Engineer Nanodegree Program is included here.  This file is based on that provided by Udacity and extended with the reflection part at the end.

---
   
## Simulator

You can download the Term3 Simulator BETA which contains the Path Planning Project from the [releases tab](https://github.com/udacity/self-driving-car-sim/releases).



## Basic Build Instructions


1. Clone this repo.
2. Make a build directory: `mkdir build && cd build`
3. Compile: `cmake .. && make`
4. Run it: `./path_planning`.

## Tips

A really helpful resource for doing this project and creating smooth trajectories was using http://kluge.in-chemnitz.de/opensource/spline/, the spline function in a single header file is really easy to use.

## Valid Trajectories

1. The car is able to drive at least 4.32 miles without incident

A pipeline to safely navigate a virtual car in a highway with other traffic was designed, and the car can drive more than 15 miles without accident.

2. The car drives according to the speed limit

The car doesn't drive faster than 50 miles per hour.

3. Max acceleration and jerk are not exceeded

The car doesn't exceed a total acceleration of 10 m/s^2 and a jerk of 10 m/s^3.

4. Car does not have collisions

In order to avoid collisions, use three vectors for each lane to check the car's environment: if other car's s value is between car_s - 20 and car_s + 30, add it to the corresponding vector; before changing to another lane, always check the vector for the target lane is empty or not.

5. The car stays in its lane except when changing lanes

During lane changes, the car doesn't spend more than 3 seconds outside the lane lines.  During normal operation the car stays inside the lane lines with the flow of traffic.

6. The car is able to change lanes

The car is able to smoothly, smartly, and comfortably change lanes when changing lanes is necessary and feasible.

## Reflection

In order to design a path planner that uses localization, sensor fusion, and map data to quickly, safely and successfully navigate one lap around the track, the car's state and environment need to be checked first, then figure out how to generate paths, such as for cold start, the car speeds up steadily without violating the acceleration and jerk constraints; when behind a slower moving car and an adjacent lane is clear of other traffic, change lanes; otherwise, slow down.  Paths are generated by starting with all of the previous path points from last time, then filling up the rest: spline fitting is performed in main car's local coordinate system, because Frenet s, d are easy to set up there, then all need rotating back to normal.

## Bosch Challenge

The new challenge is similar to this project, I may use the same code, but the goal is to safely complete a fixed distance as fast as possible, so my code should be optimized accordingly, and I can't wait to do it.

---